it was my intention to get 100 children
in the community but because we didn't
have no resources out there what soever
that the state cut us off and we had got
76 children I believe that God wanted to
teach this nation what we are missing in
the adoption Arena
[Music]
hello
everybody I'm here today talking to
Bishop Martin his wife Donna Martin My
Wife Tammy Peterson and joshu wiel who's
the director producer and writer with
his wife Rebecca of the movie The Sound
Of Hope the story of pawsome Trot um
this is a story about a small community
pawsome Trot that decided to take
matters into their own hands in a
responsible way and 22 families in the
community adopted 76 children pulling
them out of the foster care system and
they decided to take the children whom
no one wanted that's older children in
the foster care system and the movie
explores that topic that difficult topic
that's a it's a hell of a thing to take
it onto yourself to pull someone you
don't know who's been hurt into your
life to try to intercede in in a
positive manner uh Joshua pointed out
for example in the conversation that
there's about 400,000 children in the
foster care system in the US and if
every Church did what the church
community in Pome trro did that there'd
be no children at all in the foster care
system and God only knows what positive
results might emerge socially in
consequence of that and so this is an
investigation into the compelling story
of the families of pwam Trot as well as
in this discussion an analysis of the
motives that the people in the community
had for undertaking this Venture and a
discussion of the potential consequences
on the psychological and social stage of
adopting responsibility to take care of
the least among these so to speak
so welcome to the
conversation all right Joshua let's
start with you why don't you tell us
well two things tell us the story of
writing first writing and and then
producing and directing the sound of
Hope and also maybe fill us in on the
details of your association with Angel
Studios good well I'm glad to be here
thank you guys so much yeah thanks for
coming all of you thank you so well the
story just real quick is about these two
uh Bishop Martin now was Reverend Martin
at the time first lady ad Donna Martin
um spearheaded this amazing thing in
this little corner of East Texas they
inspired 22 families to begin to adopt
kids out of the Foster system with them
uh this was in the sort of late 90s and
uh ended up at the end of the day the
community adopted 77 kids between them
and uh they asked for the kids that
nobody wanted so it was a really
specific you know goal in that so we my
wife Rebecca and I wrote this and and
produced it and we heard about this
story and she's working in the um child
welfare space in Los Angeles doing a lot
of work with churches trying to get them
more involved in caring for these kids
and so she came across you had a I think
she was looking for a speaker for Bishop
Martin to uh join her and they connected
and long story short we just hit it off
and felt like something about this story
just gripped us um we we felt like it it
needed to be made so we sort of shifted
away from some other things that were
happening and
and began developing that so what you
mentioned that there was something about
the story that struck you and it struck
you hard enough to divert you from the
path you were already on so what do you
think it was what did you pick up do you
think you and your wife that had that
effect on you I mean for me it was it
was hearing these kids stories I mean I
started reading about the actual kids
and what they had gone through and
backing up just a little bit you know we
had adopted two of our kids and so we
had personal experience
in this whole thing and cared a lot
about it and uh we also started to
connect what was happening to these kids
the breakdown of the family that crisis
and how it sort of impacts our
communities and all of these things were
coming together but I remember reading
about these kids Terry especially what
she lived through and I was I was like
we've got to we've got to tell people
about this how old were your kids when
you adopted them um one was about six
almost oh six and then almost two okay
so you had some personal experience with
this that was direct and the stories
themselves touched you but you also felt
that I mean it's it's a difficult thing
to understand why how a creative
inspiration comes about right it is
something like a bunch of things coming
together but you also said you thought
that it struck to the heart in a
personal way of one of the major
problems that's facing our society which
is obvious
the breakdown of the family and and
that's a catastrophe and it's a
catastrophe that particularly affects
the poor because the rich still are
married and have intact families and so
so you could feel all of that coming
together sir you you started talking
about this to your congregation a long
time ago how long ago now it was back in
probably in the 90s late 90s uh so it
been quite some time ago okay so so tell
us tell us about the T town that you're
working in and so so that everybody has
a sense of the place but also maybe you
could explain why this particular issue
touched you and why you felt it was
necessary to bring it to the that could
go to Donna too that absolutely
absolutely you're both welcome to chime
in why why you think that particular
problem became the focus of your your
attention in your in your work in your
church so uh she do the first part and I
do the second part you can tell her why
then I know tell her why was happening
it you okay well back in '97 from the uh
90s yeah 97 the loss of my mother my
mother passed away and uh in
February and a couple of months after
her death I be began to if you will be
depressed you know I call it a silent
depression uh because when I was around
other people's I was happy and jolly and
you know doing the work of the Lord and
putting on the first lady face and just
meeting everybody kns but as a pastor's
wife and so when I would be alone by
myself at the house my husband off to
work he was selling insurance at that
time and then um through the uh service
of my mother we were in a really old
church and this is the church that I
grew up in as a child um and the the
floor it was that church probably would
seat maybe 175 people so it was probably
500 folks packed in that church that day
and that many cars was lined up miles
down the street that people was trying
to get in but at the service the I heard
a at that time I heard a pop I didn't
know what it was but it was the I
thought it was a Pew and actually it was
the Wall came from the you know the
floor came from the wall and so he was
in the process after that of you know
trying to find people to help donate and
build us a church a church we only had
$500 in the building fund and he's
selling insurance so he's busy he's
selling Insurance he's got to make his
routes he's got to try to find some good
Heavenly peoples who will help us
restructure a building he was just
overwhelmed
and I was there at the house after
getting my kids off to
school couple of months of just crying
out to the Lord silently there was
nights he would come in after work I
would share with him and I would get so
angry when he would tell me Donna I
understand how you feel it would make me
so angry it's like how can you
understand how I feel you know he lost
his mother when he was young but I would
get angry and just after telling the
Lord a couple of months Lord no child
should lose a mother I am 36 years old
but I'm saying to the Lord no child
should lose a mother so this particular
day I got the kids off the school he's
off to work I'm doing my
dishes and that pain that I've had in my
heart in my chest it was like a heart
and the rounded was just burning fire
aching burning fire and so I said as I
was beginning to do my dishes I said
Okay God today is the day either you
heal me or let me die literally I
thought I was going to he was going to
come home and find me right there at the
floor yeah so you were experiencing
physical pain as well Associated it was
all physical it was grief it was in
every emotion of being of my body mind
Spirit Soul again now when I'm with the
church and with God's peoples I am just
I'm on point I'm on Target and that's
why I said silent you know it's a silent
pain and so why why do you think why do
you think I'm sure this is related in
some manner why do you think that you
were angry with your husband for for his
presumption that he understood did did
were you feeling partic I mean it sounds
like most of the time you were feeling
pain and isolation so it it would have
been perhaps hard for him even to see
that but do you have any sense of why
were you were you were you angry about
the fact of your mother's death the fact
that she was taken away did you feel
that I angry about that I was angry
about the pain and the hurt it's like no
one could connect to that you know I
never felt the connection from anyone I
see so you're feeling isolated yes yes
if you will yes right right yes how do
you think people should share their
grief definitely about uh you know
talking about it expressing it you know
feeling the Comfort but as I look back
over it it's just I think that it was a
preparation there was a preparation for
me personally to
receive the
assignment that God had in store I feel
that truly it really wasn't about me it
was about what he was preparing
me us the world the church to
do and I do believe that through pain
and suffering come Victory when you
suffer through something and you receive
that Godly assignment then you can
associate that with what you went to or
through to get to where you are right
that gives you some seriousness that
gave the connection yeah that made the
dots no matter what so when I answered
to the Lord and he said back to me me I
hurt you you give back what think about
those children that's out there and and
did this happen when you were doing
these the dishes you started this
happened this happened after after I
said to him either heal me or let me die
right then a calmness came over me I
don't even remember going out but I was
just moved it was just the Holy Spirit
just mov me from one place to the next
on my back porch so I wonder if that was
a consequence of the way you formulated
that you know it's you're in a s
situation where your pain is serious
enough so that you're willing to have
death come as a relief maybe that's the
time when people are more likely to be
most serious about doing a new thing I
mean if you're willing to give up your
life and die maybe you're at that point
willing to give up your life to do
something new you know so yeah well it
could be that you have to be taken down
to the so when Jonah for example when
Jonah is called upon to speak
he doesn't really agree to speak until
after he's thrown off the boat that's
right mostly drowned and then in hell
for 3 Days right that's when he decides
he's going to do what he's supposed to
do yes right so it gives him Grim
seriousness of purpose yeah okay so
you're doing the dishes and what do you
realize as I were saying I was just
moved to the back porch and when I went
and stood on that back
porch calmly
the Holy Spirit plainly spoke to me said
I've heard you but think about those
children who are out there that do not
and did not have what you have had their
mother and grieved right so you were
informed them that you were fortunate
enough at least to have a mother to
grieve come on now come on H fortunate
enough to have
something that's called L yeah right
with 21 children raised with s
watch this
woman nurture every one of us
individually and at the same time never
one time that mer Lee gisby cartright
lost her
cools poor we were poorer than Lazarus
if you will we were we didn't have
anything but each other love family
genuine love unconditional love and she
kept it together yeah so by you know we
stepping out and the Holy Spirit says
give back give back think about those
that didn't have what you had so my
mother passed away two weeks ago three
weeks ago sorry and uh it was some
somewhat sudden um we were more worried
about my father actually than my mother
and uh you never know how you're going
to react to that hey but I was in Las
Vegas when I got the news and I I spent
the day with memories you know and I
haven't
got one negative memory of my mother
wow so you know and I've interviewed a
lot of people who have done well in
their lives and asked them how their
interests developed and why they had the
confidence in themselves that they had
you know and they're almost invariably
from two parent families yeah and
and and the developmental psychologists
know this too like the love of your
mother gives you it's like an unshakable
confidence in in your own physical
reality right and that's sort of
instantiated maybe even in infancy it's
it's really embodied and really
fundamental your father can be a figure
of great encouragement which is very
nice alignment with that acceptance and
love and
so so you were in now you said that when
you were on the porch that the Holy
Spirit spoke to you and so how exactly
did you experience that and why did you
attribute that to the Divine like what
what was was it an actual voice was it a
thought was it a feeling like how did
that how did that idea come to you it
was just a calm sense of a voice I could
not have made this up I would not ever
had a funket if you will yeah I know
without a doubt and every time I think
on it and speak on it I know it Greater
I know it Greater and I know through all
the the disappointment all the pain that
the children suffered from all the hurt
the
anxiety the
abuse the
neglection I knew without a doubt and
sitting here even now right this moment
want that it was nobody but God who
allowed this who gave this commandment
from
heaven and how do you how do you think
you know that because we didn't give up
I see no matter how hard it got you
stuck with it we stuck with it yeah you
know you could tell that story about you
and Julian maybe yeah sure okay so when
I was uh 2019 I was diagnosed with
terminal cancer told I had 10 months to
live and Jordan and I were in the
doctor's office and I thought well you
know my mom and her family all died
fairly young and I guess I'm one of
those and so I just kind of said okay
and we went home and my son lived nearby
with his wife and they came outside and
I told my son I said so I told him that
I was going to die in 10 months and I he
looked at me he looked at me and I saw a
boy losing his mother and I thought oh
my
goodness so that love that I had for my
son I saw that reflected back to me
which I had never felt
before and I felt the weight of the
world lift off my shoulders and I felt
the Holy Spirit fill my body and I said
to my son you know what those doctors
they have a medical opinion but only God
knows when I'm going to die and we're
just going to go it day by day with
gratitude well and Tammy and Tammy
that's been the story Tammy's told me
two things about that first you know the
first and I've thought about it a lot
when she was the mother of young
children one of the things that was
quite remarkable watching her was
that she responded to the kids if they
were in distress pretty much immediately
so when my daughter was born Michaela we
lived in a little apartment in Montreal
in a poor neighborhood and I built a
bunk bed and I put built a crib to go
underneath it and so that's where
Michaela slept and at night if Michaela
so much as peep Tammy was down the
ladder and taken care of her so she
never really woke up and cried but she
had that immediate response she also
told me this I thought was quite
interesting we took we took Michaela
again up to this little cottage in
Northern
Saskatchewan that I that we go to we've
gone to every year for 20 years and most
of the people up there are old you know
over 70 and uh we took our little kids
up there and it was just Michaela it was
just Michaela at that point she only she
was Jolly Jumper age yeah we'd have like
10 old people in the living room of this
little cottage and they'd just be
watching that baby like she was on fire
you know and so and I said to my husband
oh this is this is this is great I said
all the attention's on that little baby
and it has nothing to do with me this is
great you know so that was a very
striking are you sure these people want
us I know they do you can call me
Mama it's hard to feel like I'm the only
one who sees these
things 70% of the kids in the system are
there because of
neglect the other 30% are put through
hell
we need your
help can you imagine ly is on
own we can't just look
away the state ain't no
family are you sure these people want us
I know they do you can call me
Mama oh
Lord no no no no
if we can't wrap our arms around the
most vulnerable then where do we add
noise and the children can't take the
noise
anymore this is something that we must
[Applause]
do 22 families want to adopt whole town
wants kids know are you kidding that's
about
right what's happening with Pome Trot
could mean a huge change for the
system we want the ones that nobody else
wanton who hurt you
baby I'm not giving up on you you can't
give up on me
either what we going to do everybody's
falling apart I'm doing the best I
can a real world hits hard I don't want
to be
here I can't give him back we got to
work on this together
[Applause]
we your people now and love never gives
[Music]
up it's easy for people to think that
their life should be about them and
their status I mean them very narrowly
and personally in that sort of
narcissistic way but one of the things
that you come to understand and I I
suspect this is more true for mothers
than for fathers is
that your life should be centered on the
on your life should definitely not be
about your narrow
needs not least because that doesn't
work it's a very unsatisfactory solution
first of all I don't think that can ever
be exhausted you know I watch
narcissistic celebrities who are
constantly dissatisfied no matter what
they attain it it it's a void that can't
be filled and I think the reason it
can't be filled is because the way you
fill that void isn't by getting what you
want it's by giving you absolutely L
that's right yeah yeah yeah yeah so it
was it and then see the reason I wanted
to tell Tammy to tell that story too
because there's a bit of a parallel
there because along with that experience
when she saw her Devotion to Julian
reflected that showed her that she was
of more worth than she thought about
herself but it was also a time when she
decided or very close to the time when
she decided that while you decided that
you were going to turn your life at
least to some degree in a new direction
as well you said that you were going to
for example that you'd speak
publicly well I had prayed and asked if
God would spare me that I promised that
I would you know know I would speak I
would speak that voice and you kept up
that resolve that's right that's been
definitely put into action she actually
found out she was good at it too the
well I liked it anyway when he steps in
yeah he gives you ability the ability to
do what you could not do without him so
what have you found that you could do
all things through Christ who gives me
strength yeah very good so be specific
what what have you what have you been
engaged in because of the decisions that
you've made that wouldn't have come your
way otherwise just obedient just I mean
sharing the message I mean teaching the
world or even
myself how what high important family is
and no matter what you do not erupt that
you know you keep it
together to whatever degree it take so
so how did you torture your husband into
paying attention to you had to
say he figured out that God speaks to
women also
uhhuh I like you well you
did thank you thank you thank you so
okay so maybe you could pick it up from
there what happened what happened after
now you were working as an insurance
salesman and as a pastor right and you
you were working in this little church
that needed some work to say the least I
needed a church yeah okay okay so pick
up the story there tell us a bit of
background about about your work and
then your religious work how did you
come to be a pastor well uh uh before
all before then before I even met her I
used sing with my brothers I got nine
brothers and one sister and uh we grw we
organized a group called The Martin
Brothers and we was singing all over the
country and and one particular Saturday
night we went to PM Trot uh where her
church is at and we had to be there that
Saturday night and that Sunday evening
that Sunday even I saw I walk through
the door and I said that's going to be
mine right there I I laid claim on her
and then the Lord brought it together I
had no idea if I would have known the
Lord would not allow me to know that
because there would have been no no
no you know so um you know when I
started in the ministry um I wasn't
looking to do anything but just in fact
I didn't want to pre I didn't want to do
that at all that wasn't something I made
choice of he made choice of then the
Lord I end up passing the church that I
got married in and when that came to me
when she came to me about the adoption
part and see one thing that you all need
to understand that my biological son he
was born with severe brain damage and
that constituted where teaching us about
patience and I think that God had a a
program in mind something in mind all
the time because do through my son with
his problem that he had we learned how
to be P because you got to be very very
patient with him you can't take him fast
you got to be real slow with him and and
you got to do do things over and over
and over before he get it but once he
get it he got it so uh uh when she came
to me with the prr I didn't want to do
it because I thinking about him you know
and what I had to do with him and then
all the rest of the responsibilities
that I had so but then again I began to
feel that this is a movement of God so I
joined in I joined in I went to the
pride some of the pride class couldn't
go to all of them in Texas they got what
they call Pride class that's well CPS
teach you how to deal with children with
multiple problems and um and when we
when we got started in it uh and brought
got the first two we got one boy who
came in before we got our true his name
was Nino her sister uh uh got him and
and after he came in then we got uh
Tyler and Mercedes and when we got TI at
Mercedes then the some of the members
start asking you know how did y'all do
that what
what what y'all do how did y'all do all
of that so what I done um they they they
wanted to they wanted to do it but they
didn't want to do CU we had to drive 120
miles round trip you know from our
church to go to take the classes and uh
and I I went to the state and asked them
about it so they told me said well if
you can find eight families that was
willing to adopt we would teach you
classes at the church oh yeah and then
she said eight family but I found 133
the first time 13 family within your
church within the church you know that
wanted to sign up and and go through
this the process of learning about adop
and after we did them I began to realize
that adoption itself was not something
that man came up with it wasn't a
manmade it was a god idea in the
beginning because the only way we was
able to get back to God was through
adoption and if you read Ephesians one I
think right that fourth and fifth verse
it will explain that to you that that it
was God good pleasure to bring us back
to him through his son Jesus Through
adoption so that was the only way we was
able to get back to God so adoption was
something that and then on top of that
adoption was something that started in
the Bible years ago under Moses was an
adopted child because uh Moses was not
he was Moses dead and a no LA but he was
raised in Pharaoh's home and a lot of
people don't agree with it but I do
Jesus was an adopted child because if
you look at it closely uh Joseph was not
his biological father he he was one that
he didn't plant the seed for Jesus
because when the angel spoke to Joseph
he told him said Joseph said he said
don't be afraid to take Mary as your law
for ready why that she's caring his only
so she was already pregnant when she got
married so he was she was not but he
told you to raise him teach him and
learn him that's why they related to
Jesus as the carpenter son and if you
read in in in when Matthew Mark L it
explain all that to you so once I begin
to let the church know the importance of
adoption and why we should be doing this
and why it's God thing that we do this
they began to really get involved we was
not looking for no publicity we was not
looking for no for none of this I mean
all of this was something we just done
because I always figured that people
take care of their children because
anything and a lot of us can say right
now well something happened to my mom my
Grandmama raised me my auntie raised me
so always it it was an adoption but it's
not a formal ad it was an informal thing
that when something happened to Mama
adoption was gone because mama or your
Grandmama or your auntie or somebody
would came in but once we learn and once
we got it in into existence now it's a
more formal thing that you got to go
through all of this and go through that
and go through that to adopted child but
for the most part it was not something
that man did this was God idea to get us
back to him and I feel like this that we
all been adopted every one of us who is
a child of God has been adopted so you
said
there's a couple of things that you said
in there that really struck me as worth
delving into further so you said that
you have you already had a fairly heavy
responsibility with your son and so you
were leery about taking on additional
responsibility partly cuz you knew how
difficult it would be and partly because
you were already occupied okay so why
did you decide to take on the additional
responsibility given given that and how
did you come to that decision
it it it came to a some where you can't
have it you know I wasn't it wasn't when
when when I felt like that this was
something that God was doing not knowing
the outcome of it but just doing what
God should do and when we do things like
that we may not see what's what's beyond
the Conner but if we obey God and do
what he said he will reveal to us
through process of time okay so let me
ask you a question about that I mean
people have ideas and Notions all the
time and some of them aren't very bright
and so how do you personally both of you
for that matter how do you decide when
you know you're supposed to discern the
spirits to see if they're of God right
so okay so now you've had a calling that
occurred to you while you were doing the
dishes and on the back porch in the
aftermath of the death of your wife and
now you're contempla the death of your
mother sorry and now you're
contemplating
this
major adoption of this major
responsibility and you regarded that as
a calling from God a Divine calling how
do you distinguish good ideas in that
regard personally from bad ideas because
the spirit of the Lord would lead you
and guide you through all things one
thing I do know by God he does not give
Vision Without provision if God put puts
something before you he going to give
you
direction if you look at it when he when
he even Noah himself when he called Noah
to build that Ark he gave Noah Pacific
uh respon how to buil it decide how what
they were going to do two levels and
what he was going to be he gave him
Pacific instruction and this is what God
does today he just don't said look I'm
want you to do this when he when you got
when Moses got ready lead the children
he told him what to do how to do it and
when do so the spirit of the Lord is so
active that it will lead you and guide
you through all things a lot of time we
make the mistake because we try to do it
our way this is when we get off course
but long as you stay in that rim with
the spirit of the Lord he going to take
you where he want you to go how do you
how do you stay in that realm obedience
cuz when God speak you obey his word if
God said go you go if God says stop you
stop and if you notice while Moses there
was even out there in the Willing there
was a whole lot of Disobedience on and
and and that because of that God there
was some problems went on out there but
any time that God is working and showing
you and telling you what to do he's
going to direct your path I think it's
in proverb and maybe that fifth chapter
talking about he said trust in the Lord
and do God he said and he shall direct
your path we'll let the Lord direct our
path we will do a whole lot dev be
successful okay so I've been I've been
trying to think that through
psychologically and
so part of the reason that we think
obviously or that we can see our way
forward is so that we can get to where
we're going and so thought is an aid to
movement forward now thoughts come to
you and so then you might ask well how
do you ensure that the best possible
thoughts come to you and it has to be
it's something like what Christ
recommends to his listeners on The
Sermon on the Mount he basically says
with regard to prayer that you should
aim at the highest good that you can
conceive of right and then you should
then attempt to treat other people as if
they have the same value as you so
that's the frame that's your aim and
then what comes to you is going to have
as its source the provision of that aim
right then it'll be reliable now your
additional point was if you do that then
the things that you need will come to
you along the way how did that now your
sister your sister was the first one who
adopted yes sir okay now why was how did
she come to play that role because
actually after the Holy Spirit spoke to
me I'm always one to say God I need
confirmation you know in the form of man
because if you work through me then I
don't have to spend a year trying to
explain it to somebody else that you
said it cuz he said we should know the
try the Spirit by the spirit and you'll
know that it is of the spirit so when I
spoke to my husband about it within his
busy time of serving the lord and his
calling I didn't get that sense of Peace
oh yeah okay so I call my sister she's
at work she happened to be on break and
I said
Dianne the Lord has said this to me
and I tell her what he
said think about those children that's
out there that did not have what you had
in a mother give back Foster and adop I
said that to her and she says first lady
if God said it we can do
it it just warmed my heart she came over
after work and I began to explain to her
and she At first she goes girl you crazy
but she was saying like you're crazy to
attack this like this you know she's
like you sold out
already and and we just went from there
we just went from there because so why
do you think your sister was so
responsive to what you said was it how
you said because we had the same thing
we grow grew up I see I see I see
connection the same love the same ner
okay now so she adopted the first child
did she take these courses did she have
right along with us right along with us
cuz when I call for the CPS for the
classes right and they said to me Mrs
Martin you're the last person that can
get in these classes it's the first time
we ever had a full class it is shut down
then here I go again cuz I done already
talked to Diane and I go back to the
Lord I say Okay God I know this is you
so what I'm going to need you to do cuz
these folks are saying I can't bring
anybody else in and if this really you
I'm going to need you to open up this
door so the lady says I call her back
and I says I really need to bring my
sister and she says to me well Miss
Martin as I already stated that the
classes are full and it's shut out but
bring her on and let us see they may ask
her to leave but all down in my spirit I
already knew that she would be there we
went to the class nobody said nothing
from that day to this one it's God now
had you decided at that point as well to
adopt or were you and your sister just
investigating at no sir I knew you knew
I knew I say Foster because you know
that you can't just go into like the
system the Foster system adoped you have
to have that six-month period of
fostering and then you're eligible for
adoption mhm but I knew that I was not
going to be a foster parent I knew that
the children that were coming to our
home was there to stay how do I KN know
that I just know it by the spirit you
can't explain the spirit you just know
he got it's just something on the inside
of you that you know that caus you to
live move and breathe I just
knew and today I know
just recently Saudi Arabia ended its
50-year Petr dollar deal with the US
which has the potential to weaken the US
dollar since 1974 Saudi Arabia has sold
oil solely in US Dollars which was huge
for our global economic dominance now
they want other options if there's less
demand for the US dollar what happens to
its value it's reasons like this that
make it important to diversify some of
your savings into gold and you can do
that with help from Birch gold right now
qualifying purchases by July 31st are
eligible to get a one-of aind limited
edition golden truth bomb the only way
to claim your eligibility though is by
texting Jordan to 9898 98 for over 20
years Birch gold group has help tens of
thousands of Americans to protect their
savings by converting an IRA or 401K
into an IRA in physical gold protect
your savings by diversifying away from
the US dollar with gold text Jordan to
98 9898 and Birch gold will help you
convert an old Ira or 401K into an IRA
and gold for no money out of pocket
right now qualifying purchases by July
31st are eligible to get a one- of- aind
limited edition golden truth bomb text
Jordan to 9898 98 that's Jordan to 98
today so when Moses encounters the
burning
bush right the voice of God speaks to
him yes because of his diligent
investigation eventually it's the voice
of God that speaks to him and it it
speaks to him in a very particular way
right because it it it demands something
of him it says that he has to stand up
against tyranny and he has to be a
leader of his people away from slavery
and he says well no one will listen to
me because I'm slow of tongue and God
says find your brother that's very
similar to what you did because your
brother has talents you don't but he
also said if you tell people that I sent
you they'll listen and so I've thought a
lot about that because you know there
are people who talk to you and your
attention wanders you can barely pay
attention to them barely listen to them
other things
crowd your imagination and call to you
but now and then you meet someone and
you listen to them and you're convinced
that at least that that they are
convinced of the truth of what they say
and their their voice is much more
compelling and
so it seems that that's what's portrayed
in the description of Moses going to
speak to the Pharaoh and the isra
Israelites right he comes away from this
encounter and the manner in which he
Comm communicates is convincing and you
see the same thing portrayed in the
stories of Christ right because
continually when he's preaching the
writers of the gospels note that he
speaks in a manner that's different than
the scribes and the Pharisees and the
lawyers with direct Authority right and
that's that sort of compelling voice
that overcomes obstacles and it is what
unites people in their resolve which is
what you said happened to you but that
can be transferred to the community okay
so now you're with your sister and
you're with childhood protection
services and you're taking these courses
and are you on board by this point are
you still wondering what's going on
what's I think I got on board about
middle WS the the classes I think they
were like 16 weeks and I had got on
board right at about the middle because
I didn't have the time no way to do that
and um and I don't and when I taken the
class I think I still missed a couple of
them because of Pride d you know so were
you going to the classes together at
that time or was that some of them okay
I would teach him I would inform him of
what I've gone through what we were
taught in the class once I got home and
little did he not know he was already on
board because he knew that when I stick
my hand on something you were already
Sun not I'm not giving and and it's not
that many things you know
I do but what I do I do it yeah well
that's a good thing to point out though
too you know is that you can maybe get
what you need and want if you don't ask
for too much all the time right cuz then
people know when you're serious and when
you're not that's a very useful thing to
know in marriage it's also useful thing
to know in your relationship with your
children it's like you don't have to say
no that often but when you say it you
should mean it right same with yes yeah
okay so you're and what so what's going
through your mind while this plan is
starting to take shape I mean well I
didn't uh really have I didn't really
focus on it at that point but then at
some point in time um I I I felt that
that this was something that God was
doing not knowing the outcome not
knowing why you know so I got on board
and when I got on board you know I I
began to just you know to go with it and
and follow through it and and and and
and children just continue to come cuz I
had to go back after they finished one
class set of them I had to go back with
another group and present them to the
state another group of your another
group that's another group and and uh
that's how they came up with the 22
families okay so so why did okay so you
you and your sister adopted and so why
did the parishioners start to become
interested in this do you think because
I started telling them what the word of
God said about adoption that's how they
got on board we began to yeah but why
did they listen because I'm the preacher
and I'm the pastor the Bible says this
Faith come by hearing hearing by the
word of God and how can they hear
without the preacher so they got to
understand that when God give the
message to the preacher it's not for him
it's for
them right and they believe that whether
they believe it or not it's still for
them because everybody you preach
through cuz Jesus himself said that
everybody said Lord Lord is not going to
end right so whether they believe it or
not he still his word is not going to
not going to change but one thing I love
about God word is that he said he stand
watch over his word and whatever he sent
his word out do it will accomplish what
it sent out to do so his word was sent
out for that little church down in those
woods to start this movement and it was
accomplished because the spirit of the
Lord was there as a pusher to make sure
that we cover the ground that the Lord
laid out and to say it was a it was a
picnic no no no no no it was not no
picnic it was hard it was tough uh you
had to do a lot of things they changed
your whole life up your whole the meanor
of life now you got one child already
that you got a problem with now you f to
invite other problems in it's just not
an ordinary thing that's why everybody
can't adopt but everybody can be a part
of adoption because you can just can't
do it you got to have a mind you got to
really a mind of patient you have to
understand and try to put yourself in a
life or a child that never had anybody
that say I love you nobody that ever say
I hug give me a hug never had a mother
and a father because they in the system
so what do they know you got babies in
the system so what they know about a
mother and father they don't know until
somebody teach them or show them what
it's all about so it's a big
responsibility that's why everybody
can't do it and God has special peoples
Amen to carry this out so you know when
I first came across the film and the
idea as a clinician who's dealt with
very difficult families you know my one
of my concerns was Fools Rush In Where
Angels Fear To Tread right this is a
very difficult thing to ask of people or
of yourself to bring
someone a damaged child into your
household especially as you point out
when people already have a fair number
of problems to take care of their own
and so it's a relief well to know for
example that you know you had a child
who re required additional care to begin
with so you already knew about this so
you were obviously approaching this in a
manner that was very realistic you know
CU people can be very naive and foolish
about their do Gooding and then they
cause a lot more trouble than than good
so Josh or maybe you could comment on
this too how did you
handle the problems of the difficulties
and how did you strive to make that
realistic well I think one one thing to
keep in mind is this was much more than
a movie to us and it was that first for
me like I feel like it has to be a movie
first if you're going to to make a movie
I think there a lot of mistakes are made
when that's not that that's the mistake
of the propagandist it's a it's a sin
not just a mistake and then the person
who just wants to get a message across
so we knew that was important it was
important to us personally but you know
one of the things about um this
community that I think is important and
you've been you've been teasing this out
is how do you arrive at this decision
why do you do this you know we think
about that because we want people to
respond as we have and I think on one
hand we you know we talk ourselves out
of what we ought to do all the time
and it's important to to look at
something and assess it and figure out
is can I manage this but I think we
usually talk ourselves out of things by
avoiding doing that right because part
of part what part of what you discover
if a problem's been set in front of you
is if you actually think it through it's
amazing it was amazing to me as a
clinician to watch how terrified people
were of thinking it was as if they
believed that if they dared to think the
worst the worst would happen yeah but
actually what happens is that if you
investigate something like Moses
investigated The Burning Bush you find
you find your way and the dragons that
you imagine to be capable of eating you
are cut down to size rapidly if you and
to preparation for it too so it's like
this balance of not wanting to scare
yourself out of the situation because of
all the obvious problems that that's
going to be presented to you but when
you know what to expect it's a huge
Advantage I think you know we didn't
know a lot of what to expect when we
adopted our first two we responded out
of the need out of compassion out of
being compelled but it's you know it's
that balance we felt like when we're
telling the story we want people to know
about what this really is because it can
just be compassion and that's not enough
you've got to understand what you're
going to I think that's the sin of Eve
mhm thoughtless compassion m right
because she clutches the serpent to her
breast and presumes she can do it right
pridefully that there is the way to a
fall and then her husband says anything
you want dear which is his sin right so
and then you do that if you think about
it we when you're alone or when there's
only a few of you um and you're trying
to manage all of what this means it's
most people fall out most people give up
and and we knew about that and and we
faced our own battles and so we felt
partly we want people to understand what
this whole world is we want them to be
aware of it it's on one hand this is an
unavoidable problem like we have to deal
with this children are in need we are
compelled as humans especially as
followers of Jesus to get involved in
that and so but how do we make this most
doable when we tell the story well let's
be honest this is what's going on these
kids' lives let's be real about it let's
not go so deep and real that it's
disturbing and you know you scare people
away because of that but we want people
to understand what they're getting into
we felt like we needed that when we look
back if we had known a little bit more
maybe we wouldn't be freaking out in
those moments we had been prepared for
it so it's that balance of obedience and
just responding to an emergency and then
a thoughtful approach that gives it more
security and Longevity and and I see
that in that Community you know so okay
so to two questions from that the first
is when you and your wife
adopted in the in the story of the
unfolding of the biblical Heroes what
happens continually is that a new
opportunity and challenge is placed in
front of them they make the appropriate
sacrifice and their character expands
right and if that happens enough they
literally turn into new people so
Abraham becomes Abraham and right Jacob
becomes Israel you change so much that
you're no longer the same person now you
and your wife adopted and that's an
overwhelming responsibility so what did
it what did that change for you and for
her and what did it change in your
marriage you you come together well
probably either you're pulled pulled
apart or you come together we came
together you I mean we needed each other
in ways that we never felt before you
know you were taking taking care of a
child you know very little about you
don't know exactly what they experienced
and they don't they don't know how to
articulate that so they're just they're
just living and acting and you're trying
to deal with that so for us it was a a
coming together praying through this the
what have we done moments the oh wow
this is amazing moments so it was it was
a coming together for us and it was
right so that means they adopt a
challenge like that there's a Peril and
a promise and the Peril is like couples
often divorce if they're if they have a
child that dies right it's very common
cause of divorce and so you could see
that in a moment of
peril everything could be lost or
something great could be gained right
right and I think
that so that level of responsibility
helps like you feel God is with you you
know I can't speak about this in any
other way that's how we experienced it
we felt God is with us and because of
that we can do this somehow and there's
something why did the two of you feel
that do you think well there's as
opposed to being pulled
apart um okay um I think because we had
that kind of relationship we were
friends it's just the way we have always
been you know we are we're close we
share a lot we're the type that
communicate a lot together like we just
we don't sort of have our own lives we
are together and that's why we worked
together so well it's because it was
just a natural thing right CU you and
you and your wife wrote this yeah so
it's just kind of probably the nature of
our relationship and what do you do
right to make that relationship have
that
quality we give room for the others
strength I think in in a lot of ways
when it comes to the creative part
especially you know it's
recognizing that's actually a void in me
she's feeling that void I need to get
some room to that right and discovering
where the strengths and weaknesses are
and then trusting that I'm going to
defer because I don't see it so I'm more
trusting by nature than Tammy right and
so I say yes to things and people that I
shouldn't and she says no to people and
things that she should but if we talk
yeah then we're as wise
as wise as
Ser what's What's the phrase as wise as
Serpent and as gentle as a right exactly
and and that's a consequence of
communication across those differences
well that's the beautiful part of of all
the Dynamics that play here so there's
never just one thing going on so what's
happening in your life is you're
changing when you bring kids like this
into your life you are now seeing things
in you that you would have never seen
any other way yeah you know you got your
biological children grow in ways you
would have never been able to grow you
end up growing that and I don't think I
mean many challenges will reveal things
in you but
children they're not someone you can
just ignore and leave and walk away from
and go I'm done with you you're they're
there right and if you have any decency
of course you're not going to do that so
you're sort of like
okay this is part of life now and you
start to see the things in yourself that
needed change which is another part of
why this is so important yeah the kids
need help but we are there's a dynamic
thing going on in the world you know and
when we follow Jesus especially he's
after a lot of things and so as he's
developing his followers and refining
them you must be put through flames you
have to be in difficult situations and
and that forces maturation fundament me
well you see this in clinical practice
as well as in developmental psychology
is kids develop on the edge of their on
the on the challenging Ed Edge of life
so if you if two kids are playing a game
if they go to a playground and they want
to find someone to play with they want
to find someone who's at their
developmental level or slightly higher
because that's where the challenge is
and so and challenge forces development
maturity right and then you might say
well what's the advantage to development
maturity and the answer to that is well
it works much better over the long run
all things considered yeah but it
requires continual sacrifice and that
willingness to challenge and someone
who's following Jesus they you know your
part of your goal is to become like him
and you can't do that without these
kinds of things happening so I don't
want to make it like a we did this for
ourselves kind of thing but there is
this this layer this reality to it that
your being purified in in well you want
you want to you want to point that out
to some degree because young people for
example they don't understand when they
think about children they think about
the responsibility and the burden and
the interference with their hedonic
self-gratification right but what they
don't understand is that the children
offer more to them than they take yes
and what they offer is well they offered
it to you and you said that is well
first of all you weren't the
self-centered
unnecessary center of the universe
anymore and so not that you were
particularly like that to begin with but
it's and that's a relief and then to be
put in a situation where you're required
to mature which is what children do and
marriage as well that's a gift not a
it's an obligation obviously but
voluntarily shouldered it's also a great
gift it's and it's part of that process
of hoisting the cross which I see in
this community too in some ways like
there's just everyday challenges
unrelated to this issue that has have
developed a way of confronting problems
in them that just carried into the the
care of children and I and I I see that
that that in America at least you know
we're we're so comfortable we as a as
let's just talk about the Christian
Church you know it's it's got a really
significant level of ease and comfort
and our goals are so often that's why
failing I think is why it's failing yeah
because people aren't being not we avoid
the you know we'd rather build you know
stages than than go where it's hard and
that's understandable not a guilt Tri
but it's just like but we have to
understand that about ourselves and part
of making this movie was and what I saw
in this was these are people who were
doing the thing that they say we ought
to do that Jesus says you ought to do
but they're actually doing it and and
they're they're they're sacrificing like
part of what they could have is not
going to happen for them now because
they've brought in these other people so
that that that's for for uh us as
creatives you know always wanting to do
more than just create entertainment we
want to do things that challenge that
are important that change people okay
well so let's delve into that for for a
minute are you tired of feeling sluggish
run down or just not your best self take
control of your health and vitality with
balance of nature balance of nature
fruit and veggies are a great way to
make sure you're getting your essential
nutritional ingredients every single day
they use an advanced cold vacuum process
that encapsulates fruits and vegetables
into Whole Food supplements without
sacrificing their natural antioxidants
the capsules are completely void of
additives fillers extracts synthetics
pesticides or added sugar the only thing
in balance of nature fruit and veggie
capsules are well fruits and veggies
right now you can order with promo code
Jordan to get 35% off your first order
plus a free fiance by supplement there's
never been an easier way to make sure
you're getting your daily dose of fruits
and vegetables experience balance of
nature for yourself today go to balance
of nature.com and use promo code Jordan
for 35% off your first order as a
preferred customer customer plus get a
free bottle of fiber and spice that's
balance ofn nature.com promo code Jordan
for 35% off your first preferred order
plus a free bottle of fiber and
spice I would say probably for the most
part in my life I'm very averse to
propagandistic Art it really GRS on me
and it doesn't matter whether
it's communist propaganda or Christian
propaganda and I would Define Christian
propaganda the subversion of the art to
the what would you false well it's more
than that like it's worse than that it's
it's that false it's that praying in
public yeah look how good we are because
we've produced this message and then
that subverts art and it all and it
makes terrible art and it's not
effective but it's also hypocritical
it's it's Pharisee like hypocrisy so
when
you're attempting to make a movie that
is in keeping with your moral striving
how do you
protect yourself against the temptation
to subvert the art to the propaganda
even if it's moral propaganda I love
it well it's it's for for me I think
it's starting with the um why are you
doing this and that's the first thing I
think that we ask is is this something
we ought to be doing is it is it bigger
than us is it important we're going to
spend a lot of our life on this so com
him does he want me to do this plainly
said and
then like full commitment to that what
this was we didn't fully understand and
we knew that this was not I've lived in
small towns but I've never lived in P
Trot I've never lived in a predominantly
black community and so we got to the
point where we felt like we to get this
right we got to go deep and so we
decided to move as close to this
community as we can we left California
we could tell the script wasn't where it
needed to be we weren't being fair to
the the idea and so for me it's a full
commitment to what you're doing as much
as you can and that's how seriously we
take film making because they have such
impact and can have such impact so so is
it so is it fair to
say what I was just thinking while you
were saying that I was thinking about
speaking on stage and when I'm speaking
on stage I'm not trying to tell the
audience what I think or what I believe
to be true I'm trying to figure
something out right it's exploration
towards the end is so that I know more
than I knew to begin with but it's an
exploration and I I know many people who
write fiction for example I have a very
good friend who writes fiction and he's
trying to figure out what's going to
happen when he's writing the fiction
right there's not a pre-ordained
conclusion there's a process of
exploration now you said because I'm I'm
still trying to figure out exactly how
you stop it from being propaganda now
you said you knew you didn't know enough
and you moved to the community and you
explored so is it fair to say that the
film is an
exploration I think it's certainly that
on one hand I personally feel like um
art itself should be more than just
exploration like I think we should have
a an opinion we we are saying something
could be wrong but we're going to say it
and so part of what we do is speak from
what we know and I you know I don't know
how to distinguish exactly from
propaganda yeah
Jesus says go and share the gospel go
and share what's true go and tell the
world what you know to be true so there
is a responsibility in us to actually
stand by what is true to us and and be
okay with that um but I think you must
have a a level of humility and and a
posture of learning so that you're um
you're picking up the Nuance you're
picking up the things and allowing the
things to remain that maybe aren't neat
and clean and figured out and there can
be some R edges but to me art that is
just left to people to
interpret I think it's weak okay so
you're making a case that at least in so
far as we're discussing what you did
there was
an surrounding moral framework yeah and
you think that's commensurate with the
making genuine art well like but it has
to be submitted to the craft like it
can't this is where I think the mistakes
are made is you you have to respect the
art form yes you can't demand of a pain
in it to be you know a performance art
piece it's like it it's a painting and a
film is a film and it has certain rules
to follow you can't let it just be a
message uh conduit okay so what so what
can you can you specify so I watched the
angel stud Chosen and I watched sound of
freedom and I watched them carefully
um and I enjoyed them and so that was
actually quite surprising to me
especially with regards to the chosen
because that's a hard thing to pull off
yeah and they pulled it off it was on
its own terms it it it succeeded
independent of the religious context it
succeeded as a movie was a very
difficult thing to do especially over
that protracted period of time and I
felt the same about the sound of freedom
and so and now you just finished
watching I watched it this morning this
morning yeah so and we talked about that
a little bit on the way here and you
were engrossed in it yes and so what
worked for you as a viewer oh well it it
was very effective uh the the staging of
the scenes themselves you know with a a
small child who comes into a group of
people like the parishioners and the the
welcoming and and to see that a child
maybe who had been alone and and who
hadn't had love uh the the community
that I think you really showed that well
that the community could gather around
and really lift up that child and um you
showed that in a number of different
okay so why the community exactly rather
than the individual families because I
think it I think because you guys had
that huge when one of the children got
lost when Terry found herself alone in
in the forest uh the father you know
called and said bring the community you
know if we're going to find this child
and it turned out that her mother found
her but then when she brought her back
the community gathered around to show
this we are here as a cohesive group and
we're not going to let you go yeah yeah
well so so well Moses tell God tells
Moses that he's not to assume that he
can do what he's being called upon to do
alone right and you see that with the
biblical hero fairly frequently so
Abraham has lot and his family along and
Sarah along with him he's not doing this
alone everybody and there's a there's a
very interesting in idea that's embedded
in that which is that you know you can
take on and this is why it doesn't have
to be about you in that narcissistic way
let's say if you're following the
appropriate straight and narrow path is
that you'll have your role and that will
be plenty for you more than enough more
than you can imagine even but that
doesn't mean that there's any less for
anyone else absolutely yeah yeah it's so
that's that that's a cornucopia image in
some way is that the of possibility is
such that it's fundamentally
inexhaustible which I believe so
identifies this community and really
people who follow Jesus it isn't an
isolated thing it is a family this is a
Glo it extends around the globe and the
intention is for these to be done in
community and that that's why this
worked so well we found in our own lives
but this this individualistic kind of
approach to problems isn't the future
that's not the way forward I think it's
together and it's why we focus on the
church in this you know I want to see I
want to see hundreds of thousands of
benett chapels because they captured
that essence of coming together around
something as a community well you see
you see the same thing laid out this is
vitally important right there's a scene
in Exodus where Moses is in the desert
with the Israelites and they ask him to
be their judge and they're really
preparing him to be a new pharaoh and
Jethro his father-in-law shows up and
says you you can't do this it's too much
for you and it will corrupt you but
worse you're depriving your own people
of the opportunity to be responsible and
to make their own judgments exactly so
so it's it's a profound revelation of
proper governance right
because Jethro sets up a subsidiary
hierarchy of responsibility as an
antidote to tyranny and slavery and so
so in this community so you start you
you start the adoption process yourself
but then other people are interested and
and you said it's partly because they're
listening to you and they trust you so
so what happens what happens next like
what happens after you start the
adoption process who you have 22
families that get involved and does that
happen all the sudden or does it happen
over a period of time over a period of
time because we did two
classes uh I think it's the first class
with 13 families and then we came back
and did another class we had a whole lot
of peoples on that list but then the
state had so much because if you if if
you if you get involved in adoption and
the case worker they workload just
Stacks up they have so much you got 13
families at one time to work with that's
a lot of work I mean and they they go to
bed and wake up they sleep they wake up
because there's a lot of work involved
so it was my intention to get 100
children in the community but because we
didn't have no resources out there
whatsoever they the state cut us off and
we had got 76 children and one day I
came from out of state and a lady called
me from bont Texas and said her son she
had a grandson that um that her daughter
didn't want anym because she was in
college and all of that and she couldn't
raise him she called me and asked me
would we take I said bring him home and
this is was the last La Bo that we got
and his name was Michael and that what
made the 77 and and I don't I really
believe to
me that this whole thing was a a plan
that God laid out and I believe that God
wanted to teach this
nation what we are missing in the
adoption
Arena you mentioned something while ago
that really struck my
attention I thought about what Jesus
went through for
us he died simply to give his life that
we can have life but then again how much
are we willing to go out of our comfort
zone to be to help some other
child the thing of it is and you mention
something about Comfort I think that
what has happened the church have gotten
too comfortable and then don't got so
comfortable until they feel like that is
not their problem it's somebody else his
problem but they fail to realize that
Jesus said I came to seek and to save
that which was lost right we should be
doing if we going to be Christlike that
mean we going to have to walk in his
shoes the Pharisees and the sexy did not
agree with what he was doing but he knew
his responsibility when God called you
to purpose he did not say it was going
to be a a level Road it going to be a
smooth Road it's going to be some ups
and downs you have some problem but
ultimately if you just stay in the
process God is going to move in him he's
going to teach you he come in all of
those situations that we've been in God
made us make us stronger he make us more
more aware he helped us to be able that
we can be a blessing to somebody else we
went through yes I'll tell anybody yes
we went through hell stealing lying
anything you can name they did but the
thing of it is God never give up on us
so why we have to give up on the
children we did something we doing this
and we believe today that if God telling
to wa in those woods churches nowadays
is so floured with so much wealth and so
much gift that they can help another
child but are they doing it no and here
God suing all the way down in them
bushes in those woods to start something
and it's got to be to show this world
what what we are missing we don't know
what we got locked in that system we
could have presidents and preachers and
teachers and missionary work all loed in
that system but if we don't do something
about this and stop this process right
now it's sweating up every day long more
and more and more so I'm I'm believing
right now that God going to use this as
a catless to let this whole world know
hey look look what you missing look what
we have looked over James 127 said pure
religion is undefiled that God accept
that we take care of the widows in the
off now have we did that no we have not
and God got an indictment against these
comfortable churches with these big fine
uh family life centers and doing all and
I'm not against that cuz I would like to
have one myself but the fact of it is we
got all the resources we need when we
did well we don't we didn't have no
resource only thing we have with each
other you thought about the community we
came together and realized that the
church got to come together we created
our own wraparound support right there
in the church we deti the men and the
women to help us to watch over the
children because this is a major problem
that's going on the schools got problem
I got to go to the school I got to do
this I got to do that but not one time
that I beg up from the responsibility
why because if God be for us who can be
against us we got to realize right now
that God given us the ability to do the
thing that we do because the scripture
said great is he that is in us and he
that we got this power over everything
on all the money for over everything
over because the Lord is with us and
that's all I know and that's what he
told Moses on that mountain he said look
you ain't got to worry about that he
said if you don't know what to say just
shut your mouth up and I'll speak
through you so God done the whole thing
all we got to do got be willing to go in
on and do the work that God called us to
do and stop looking to the left and stop
looking to the right and stop looking up
to the hill that come which come out
here we can get this thing up this
system is going to be empty God is going
to empty this system out why because he
went all out of his way and I'd like to
say this too the first law of nature is
self for but the first law of Grace is
other for Jesus went all out of his way
to make sure that we can be sitting up
here today it might be easy to just toss
all of your discipline to the side for
the summer but a life of greatness
doesn't happen by taking the easy route
the Hallow app offers an incredible
range of guided meditations and prayers
that are designed to help you deepen
your spirituality and streng stren your
connection to God with hallow you can
embark on a journey of exploration
diving into different themes and types
of prayer and meditation from gratitude
to forgiveness each session offers a
unique experience sparking your
curiosity and deepening your spiritual
understanding you can choose different
lengths of meditation to fit your
schedule whether you have a few minutes
or an hour with its userfriendly
interface and hundreds of guided
meditations the Hallow app has quickly
become a go-to resource for people
seeking spiritual growth and healing you
can download the app for free at
hall.com Jordan it allows you to set
prayer reminders and track your progress
hallow is truly transformative and it'll
help you connect with your faith on a
deeper level don't lose your prayer
habits this summer maintain your peace
and deepen your relationship with God
download the Hallow app today at
hall.com Jordan for an exclusive 3-month
trial that's hall.com
Jordan well there's something to be said
too for a demonstration case in a
relatively isolated and poor Community
because if you can do it there you do it
any well that's that's the idea isn't it
and you know I was reminded when you
were talking about part of the story of
Elijah and when Elijah is running from
Jezebel right the evil queen essentially
the nature worshipper um he ends up in
the house of a widow right and the Widow
has not enough food for her and her
children right and there's a famous
episode in that story where I think she
hits the side of the flower Barrel
continually and every day there's more
flower provided but the idea there is
that it's a very fundamental idea and
it's the idea that you just expressed
which is
that there's more possibility available
even to people who think they're in
poverty even if they are in poverty then
they believe if they're align is proper
and their aim is up amen now okay so
let's delve into that a little bit so
this is a this is a poor Community
doesn't have much resources the church
isn't
even architecturally sound and yet
people do this and so how do they manage
it like how did why does it has it
worked and why did it work it worked
because number one we came together
number two it worked because the Lord
was with us we had many needs and still
do but the problem of it is some way and
somehow when you are doing this for the
Lord and doing it in his will and
obeying his commandment God would drop
stuff on you that you never dream God
would take somebody that you never heard
of and he said look I just was thinking
about you and I just want to bless you
with something this is the way God this
is where you able to accomplish thing
and look it ain't nothing to be be
grinning and oh man look who I am said
it ain't nothing like that but the thing
of it is stand in the process I can't
get that word out of my mind process a
process is something that you stay with
if you get out of the process you done
messed up already but if you stay in the
process especially when God has already
opened up them Chanel for you to walk
through all we got to do is just stay
with the process obey his will and
understand that God got your back I
don't care what helpen see that's the
same thing with Elijah I mean he was
went to this Widow house and what
happened he said look I tell you what
you do he said we just going to I got a
little oil and a little hake and and me
and my son we going to eat and we going
to drink and we going to die but look
what God Said look don't do that he said
give me mine first she obeyed the man of
God and the Mandate that was on his life
she obeyed that what he did and her her
meal bear never ran out again this is
what happened when we obey God this is
the thing that happened when we stay in
the process and do what he said do it
ain't going to helpen no way because we
do have our adversary out there that
fighting us on every hand don't want to
see us do this and same thing you done
about this whole movie he have fought us
on two na but let me tell you something
only thing I can say about that but God
when you going through something and you
know that the Lord is with you you don't
even have to be a you don't be a fe that
don't even look at their faces don't be
afraid of that because God is going to
work it out some way and somehow God is
going to work out when Israel got out
there in bun and needed some water what
God told him to hit the rock and more
water it's just the way he does that we
don't we don't always can't Define it
but we know that God is with us so you
know one one of the things that's
interesting about that Elijah story too
is that it's after Elijah has the that
encounter with the Widow who is
contrasted with Jezebel who's
powerful that's when his conscience
awakens within him right because this is
a very crucial story because Elijah of
course is one of the prophets who
appears with Jesus when he's
transfigured it's Elijah Moses and Jesus
and Elijah is the first person in the
biblical sequence of stories who
formally identifies god with conscience
right because it's Elijah who talks
about the still Small Voice he realizes
that God's not in the earthquake not in
the fire not in the storm these awe
inspiring elements of nature that's
partly why he's opposed to the nature
worshippers and what he does instead is
take
everything that people had
misapprehended in the awesome of
awesomeness of nature as indicative of
God and he places it in a very lowly
place in a way which is the voice of
conscience right now and part of the
theme that we've been developing in this
discussion is something like the
Awakening of conscience in the church
okay so now do you think there's any
particular significance in the fact that
this is also something that happened in
a predominantly black community
no it's something that is happening well
let me say it like this what we did was
in the black community but what God did
what God is doing now he exposing it to
the world abely he want everybody to
know that we all got a part in this and
like I said earlier everybody can't
adopt but everybody can be a part of
adoption we can do something to help the
sad part about it if we don't do
absolutely nothing that's the sad part
but I do know one thing if God be for us
I don't care what happened I don't care
what they can shake the the the the
graveyard to called dry bones to rise it
doesn't matter if God be forro we going
to
succeed this movie if if if judge will
just give you a a short history of the
hell of the problem of the situation and
all the trouble and the trauma that we
have to got have did just to get this
this far and it still it devil ain't
through yet he's still raising up his
ugly head but here the thing of it is
God wants somebody who won't say no Who
Won't Give Up and the lady told me the
other day she said these words she said
whatever God say yes in your spirit
that's what you do God done said yes and
that's what we doing we are not bagging
up we're not taking down we're not
running away because you know why we got
the power over this not the enemy but he
want to throw up this Bluff and make us
feel and and try to intimidate us but
look I'm I'm too old a cat to be fooled
by kid I'm not going to let the enemy
try to bring this stuff down on me and I
know better cuz I already know what the
Lord said no weapon I mean absolutely no
weapon formed against us shall prosper
we are more than a conqueror and our
stands on that I'll say something you're
pretty good at
that there I think there is something
about your community and even the black
community at large because of what in
our country they've had to overcome
historically and the the Bond that's
been created through community and
family that they've thrived you know
because of and survived because of it's
an example I think in a picture of what
Christian family is supposed to be like
you know and I don't mean blood family I
just mean spiritual family as well so I
think there is something that we noticed
that that allowed for this to work and
is an example that we want to follow and
I think we've lost at least in the
bigger cities you know I think there's a
lot of smaller communties that just kind
of naturally have that but it's a it's a
it was it was just being a black woman
and proud of being you know black and
and but I well I was think
I well there's a particular problem with
breakdown of family structures in the
black community and so the fact that
you're working within your marriage and
then you're working with this within
this community to rectify some of the
consequences of that seems to me to be
significant
in addition to the fact that you're
doing it with well hypothetically with
restricted resources it's like it's not
so obvious in a way that your community
is poor because you actually have a
community and if you're rich and you
don't have a community you're poor right
well it's true it's
true well true you're just rich and
isolated and then that often just does
you nothing but give you license to
pursue your idiot habits and you know
that's partly why Christ says to the
rich man who's in distress that he has
to sell everything you think you're rich
but you're not you're not rich at all in
fact your wealth is an enemy that's kind
of the enemy that you made illusion to
with regards to the church no it's the
com that comfort you could think of that
comfor Comfort is Abraham's worst enemy
when he begins his Adventure right it's
what he has to what he has to sacrifice
immediately to go out into the world is
comfort you said something that you
brought up Abraham notice what Abraham
no know what he did Abraham when God
said Abraham get up yeah and go to a
land that I show you did he ask God
which direction did he question God why
me did he question what Abraham done
gathered up his flock gathered up his
stuff and started and hit the road but
hit the road
now I I'm sitting up here saying how did
Abraham know whether go north south east
or west the Lord's with him
and God was was showing him within his
own I'll show you the way he should go
and he went that way continually and you
me you mention lot while ago it came a
time yeah that God had to do something
because him and the Bible said how can
two walk together except they agree so
Abraham and lot had to separate right
because God had a plan for Abraham
that's why the separate but the thing of
it here God blessed lot and he also
blessed Abraham but Abraham had to cut I
I preached a message one Sunday to get a
lot you got to give up a lot yeah and
that's what we don't you got to give up
your lot to get a lot that's what
Abraham done he gave up his lot that's
funny to get a lot and after he gave up
his lot look what God done yeah he said
Abraham I'm going make you rich but he
had to give up yeah his own nephew in
order to get this Rich from God well God
God God offers abam for things right so
he comes to Abraham and he says leave
what's comfortable and he says this is
what will happen your life will become a
blessing to you right your name will
become known validly among your
contemporaries you will establish
something permanent and of lasting value
for Abraham it's a dynasty of Nations
and you'll do that in a way that brings
a blessing to everyone right and so that
call of adventurous responsibility
that's what came to you on the porch
okay so what has that done to your
community what have you seen happen as a
consequence first of all to the people
who adopted and the children but what's
been the broader impact on the community
the enlargement of love family you uh
stability Faith sound of hope you know
and passing down stopping the
generational curses right the break it
being the bondage breaker and seeing
that those children children because
they were gathered into love and impact
by change that their children my
grandchildren that I nurture you know
that comes up to our home will never
have to experience what they parents
yeah yeah you're talking about gratitude
and gratefulness right so it's a
permanent change it's a permanent change
it's an everlasting just at the promise
yeah yeah gave unto AB well so well
that's right so so what happens so what
happens to Abraham is that God says to
him if you follow the voice of
Adventure and let it take you wherever
it wants to take you then you'll become
the father of Nations and so I'm
thinking about that well I think what it
means okay see there's a mistake that
evolutionary biologists make when they
think about human reproduction they
think about
reproduction as sex but that's foolish
because our children require this kind
of dedicated commitment that that you
mention right once you take on a child
it's like it's a 40-year commitment
right and so sex just gets the ball
rolling you might say there's an immense
sacrifice that has to be made after made
after that and that's the sacrifice that
forces you to mature well what God
points out to Abraham is that if he do
does that right he'll establish a
pattern of fatherhood that will then
Cascade down the generations and make
his descendants successful right because
God promises him that his descendants
will defeat the people of Cain for
example and those are the resentful
bitter descendants of Cain and so there
is that so you see that your community
has adopted this responsibility that's
multigenerational and they you think
people are aware of that I mean you you
laid it out very quickly I think so I
think so I think that you know coming
from the same community and have the
same values and you know touched by the
same love it's passed out you know you
can only give out what's been given to
you and uh being in the same area and
having the same you know form of of of
life and and expectancy before you yeah
you gravitate to the environment that
you in so yes yeah I think so there's a
it seems to me too that there's people
in the modern world are searching for
identity right they're searching for
dignity and maybe that's more difficult
maybe that's more difficult if you're
poor although there's plenty of
undignified rich people so it's not that
clear but it is clear I believe
that that dignity that people are
searching for is accomplished by
adopting
responsibility cuz you know then like
even if things come your way
that I don't know demean you maybe
that's when socially you you you if
you've taken on the proper
responsibility you know in your heart
that what you probably know in your
heart that God's with
you look that that's a
it went a shadow of a doubt yeah Abraham
where he was and this is why we call him
the father of the faithful Abraham was
faithful he although he messed up yeah
yeah L he messed up but the thing of it
is God looked beyond his thoughts yeah
and cuz see God promised Abraham what he
was going to do God is not g to go back
on his promises now we go back on God
because we go contrary to will but he
didn't go back on his promise he told
Abraham what he was going to do and he
did just that and in the midst of all
that Abraham messed up bad but God had
mercy I guess that's why we got mercy
and Grace today yeah because God keep on
giving us his mercy and his grace to
help us to understand the beauty of who
he is and what he want to do in our
lives well it also means it it it also
means what what you were referring to
earlier
about how you struggled when you first
adopted children is that you didn't know
what you were doing to begin with and
that's certainly the case for Abraham
and for Jacob and all the biblical
Heroes they they definitely figure it
out along the way and a a large part of
what does constitute God's grace is the
fact that you can do a good thing badly
and learn along the way right and that's
a relief right because this one of the
things I've really learned about read
from reading these biblical stories is
that these the heroes in the Old
Testament they're very flawed people to
begin with and that's a relief because
everybody very fled to begin with so if
there's hope for them in their flawed
circumstances that also indicates
perhaps that there's hope for all of us
who are flawed to begin with and that
that the the proper sacrificial intent
gets the ball rolling right okay when
does the movie come out July 4th uh you
can actually go July 3rd with the
official opening is July 4th uh so
Nationwide um over 2,000 screens we see
how it goes and it will'll go beyond
that but and you mentioned that you have
a first grand opening we have a Premiere
yeah tomorrow it's Premier tomorrow yeah
and that's in in Atlanta it's in Atlanta
oh it's in Atlanta we filmed near
Atlanta so we're we're going to gather
with the crew and everybody down there
to kick this off so okay and so maybe
maybe we could close this what what is
it there's a call to action in all of
this so let's make that practical what
is it what is it that you're hoping will
happen you guys and and you what are you
hoping will happen and is there
something concrete other than going to
see the movie that people because people
should be interested in the movie per se
but maybe there's also something that
it's calling them to do
beyond beyond actually just watching the
movie I think in a broad sense it's it's
really working to resolve some of the
problems around us in our new in our
communities right you think about this
problem connects to things like the
foster care system is like the feeder of
all kinds of terrible things in our
society you know the the the majority of
kids who are trafficked in America 70 80
90% of them have spent time in the
Foster system you've got right 50% of
the homeless population in the United
States has spent time in the Foster
system the prison population I think
it's 70% of the prison population has
spent time in the F sure because the
children children aren't being taken
care of so this trauma and and all the
disruption that happens just leads to
all these other things and so you really
think this is a focal point we want to
address the roots oh yeah oh yeah and
the things that um we all get so
brokenhearted about and disturbed by but
maybe don't feel like we can we can
change this is a way to change it we get
involved in the Foster crisis we deal
with the root cause of this so what we
want people to do go enjoy this movie go
be moved by the movie we made it so that
you would you would enjoy it in and of
itself there's a bigger purpose here and
that is that we take responsibility for
some of these things around us so we
want we want to do that with the at the
end of the movie you'll have a way to
continue Spreading the News creating
awareness buying tickets Pay It Forward
is what Ang does and then there's a
website that you will be led to if
you're interested to get involved we're
going to lead people in several ways to
get involved we want to see thousands of
churches emulate what benett Chapel did
so you're going to be able to get your
church involved there's people who may
feel like they want to Foster and adopt
we're going to have a way for you to
learn about that and maybe even get help
on the ground where you are and then
also prevention we want to see this stop
we want to see these families that are
in crisis helped so there's going to be
ways to connect through something called
care portal which connects families and
needs to people who want to meet needs
it's this amazing thing where we can cut
off the flow of children into the system
by doing things as simple as providing
beds for families or refrigerators or
really it's relationship ultimately the
relationship is what we want so we want
people to go Beyond this and uh and and
look at their communities their
neighborhoods focus on that change we
can see broadly speaking in our society
a mounting fear of top down tyranny yes
right and it's it's fostering conspiracy
theories and and
Terror everywhere across the West around
the world and at the same time what's
accompanying that is a disintegration of
community and a fractionation of people
into atomized individual
slaves so we have a tyranny and slavery
problem that's emerging and the
historical antidote to that is
subsidiary responsibility right you look
around you can do because then that's
what they're doing you take a place like
California they're in effect allowing
13-year-olds to be emancipated you got
little children who can be going into
the car of a child trafficker known
trafficker and a caregiver cannot stop
that from happening yeah they have to
watch it happen they could take a
picture of this I mean so the insanity
that results from people abdicating
going no we let the government deal
someone else not my problem every
responsibility you abdicate to the
government invites tyranny right turns
you into a slave and invites tyranny
that's exactly right and the antidote
it's very interesting you know one of
the things I've noticed in my lectures
and so the public lectures has probably
been 700 of them something like
that the thing that strikes people most
now is to draw a through line from
responsibility to meaning mhm yeah right
conservatives always tell people this is
what you should do but they're missing
something what they're missing is that
if you do what you should do then you
have the adventure of your life that's
what happens to Abraham right the
greatest things that could possibly
happen to him happened to him because
he's willing to take on responsibility
right that's what happens to Christ
obviously as well so the the message
there the Eternal message of the Divine
is
that the adventure that redeems your
life is to be found in the adoption of
maximal responsibility I love that about
you and that's it to me it goes from
religion to relationship that way when
you're only acting out of agh yeah very
cold cold that's right but when it's I'm
going to put within that purpose and I'm
actually going to make you become more
like me this is God speaking or the
relationship between us is there I'm
allowing you to be a part of this and
Pur is is is the adventure and the the
beauty of that involvement so yes of
course we ought to do these well that's
the burning bush again you know because
Moses by the time the burning bush
appears to Moses he's actually a pretty
wellestablished adult right he's a
shepherd and doing a good job and he's a
husband and and and so he's already
grown up but then that that that extra
calling emerging and he pays attention
to it and that transforms his life and
then the world and
that's that's right that's an archetypal
story that always happens in the end the
one you're following is seen I mean
right he he he wants to be known but
he's also limited all of this to Faith
and so it's a lot of these questions
like why you know and should we and
these kinds of things it's like well
within all of that he wants to be seen
and experienced and known and and
there's so much happen and and and I
want people to understand this isn't
just like begrudgingly go out and do
good and like help kids well yeah but
there's such power in this and the
experience is so deep and and I you're
missing so much if you just leave that
to someone else that's the invitation to
the heavenly banquet you know I want to
I want to point this out too is that
adoption is the antidote to abortion mhm
have the child if you don't don't kill a
baby that that's that's murder and you
taking something you can't give and my
Bible tell me only God give and take
away so have the baby somebody would
take that baby if you just going on and
have the baby so it to me it's an
antidote it's just a solution right an
Invitational an in in and and it will
work M um uh and shouldn't be like this
no way it shouldn't be like this yeah
the church is the only entity that God
ordained to take care of the problems of
this world when I was 15 14 15 years old
we to what you call service station some
call them fing station you go to the
service station or fing station if you
need air somebody will there to wait on
you if you need a fix fat towel about
whatever you need right there you can
get it all fixed right there so the
church is a One-Stop solution that will
fix all problem why because where the
word of God is and where God is there is
liberty and there is freedom and that
will be when the people of God come
together on one Accord the presence of
the Lord is there and when the Pres
wherever the presence of the Lord is
healing I mean you got everything you
need right there because it's all in his
presence so what do you say to that amen
yes yeah absolutely all right well
that's a good that's a good well we hope
people hear the I mean I what what
shakes me inside is that there's this
children the voice of the child is in
God's ears all the time he hears yeah
and I think right now we're at a we're
at a very unique this isn't just you
know we we threw a movie together like
no there's something going on in the
world today and the child is at the
center of that and it's this the most
innocent helpless thing that you
know he's done with us just letting that
happen without us coming and becoming
involved in that and dealing with that
so there's a lot in this for all of us
but people need to understand these
children right right now today that in
America is's 100,000 children that need
homes y there's 400,000 kids in the
system and and and just one solution is
there's 400,000 churches in America so
this is child per Church yeah this is a
really manageable problem you know and
so I'm hoping people hear the Cry of
these kids now as I was drawn in because
of that that there's suffering children
all around us there's kids they don't
have room for these kids they're putting
them in hotel rooms alone in some places
in America they're putting them in in
defunct Hospital Wards they're putting
children in back they don't want welfare
doesn't want you to know about this
because it's who wants who wants to be
told you know we don't know what to do
about this problem it's so big and it's
a it's a an emergency right now and so
part of this is let's look at this as
people and go we got to do something
here children are suffering it's enough
of this we we can we can do more than
just um be Americans live with the
American dream or wherever you are you
know making your goal comfort and well
this is the prop American Dream this is
it y definitely it's also the dream for
actually produces wealth right in the
long run amen it's not natural resources
it's not economic activity it's the
proper Covenant between the individual
and God yes definitely amen from all
right good well thank you to everybody
watching and listening I'm going to
continue this conversation for another
half an hour on the daily wire side uh
the daily Wire by the way has been
moving towards a practical relationship
with Angel Studios which I think would
be good for both and so that's a good
thing to see I I've really liked working
with with the daily wire and I like what
Angel studio is is doing and so the
conjunction of that seems to be very
good if you want to join us on the daily
wire side please feel free thank you
very much for coming up here and for
what you've done and uh best of luck
with the movie and with your continued
Endeavors God only knows what will
happen as a consequence of this I guess
we're going to find out it's very
exciting a that this is all going to
launch July 4th that's a great time to
have it happen this renewal and so
congrat ulations on your work and uh
what an adventure to Watch What Happens
he amen that's for sure we appreciate
you guys having us my pleasure my
pleasure thank you very much it was it
was I'm very grateful to be here and to
Met You It's a Wonderful story and I
look forward to hearing how it goes for
everyone thank you thank you
yeah and